# TEL Harvesting Activities: Overview

section: tel-harvesting-activities
slug: issuance-harvesting-overview
status: draft
AI summary: This document provides an overview of TEL harvesting activities, including liquidity mining, validation, and governance. Liquidity miners provide liquidity to TELx markets and earn TELx issuance based on their staked liquidity. Validators stake TEL and secure blocks on the Telcoin Network blockchain to earn TEL issuance. Council members participate in governance decisions and earn TEL issuance. The TAO facilitates governance processes and ecosystem development. Evaluative criteria include general performance indicators, sustainability, participation, and proportional equivalence.
checked: Yes
parent: tel-harvesting-activities

## Overview

The following section provides a detailed insight into who harvests (2) what quantity of TEL issuance that is generated by the Telcoin Platform (3) by what means (4) when, and (5) on whose authority. Using the IAD framework, we provide descriptive analysis related to the:

**Context**

An overview of the factors that encompass all aspects of the social, cultural, institutional, and the material environment that sets the context within which actors harvest TEL issuance from the platform including:

- **Material Attributes:** Characteristics of the system and the benefits it generates
- **Attributes of Community:** The attributes of the community of involved actors
- **Rules-in-use:** that structure the operational activity of issuance harvesting by miners across scales of the system and the collective-choice rules for altering and enforcing those rules

**Interactions and Outcomes**

The interactions between actors and the system and the possible resulting outcomes on the Platform.

- **Summary:** Activities, benefits, technology used, and infrastructure involved in harvesting TEL issuance from the Platform.
- **Table:** The involved actors, the benefits they enjoy, the activities they undertake, using what technologies, the basis formula determining how benefits are calculated, and the infrastructure involved in the situation.
- **Overview:** Positions, participants, associated actions, how actions are linked to outcomes, the level of control each participant has over action in the situation, possible outcomes, and a cost-benefit analysis for each actor in the situation.
- **Evaluative Criteria:** Criteria that may be used by miners or external observers to determine which aspects of the observed outcomes are deemed satisfactory and which aspects are in need of improvement.

### Summary: Issuance, Actors, and Activities

The Telcoin Platform generates a flow of TEL annually (”issuance”) from a renewable inventory of TEL stored in the TEL Treasury. The following actors harvest TEL issuance:

- **Actors**
    - **Miners:** TEL issuance is made available by the platform to be harvested by four different types of miners, including Stakers, Developers, Liquidity Miners, and Validators, across scales of the system, over time, according to harvesting rules determined by Miner Councils and self-enforced by on-chain programs called “smart contracts.”
    - **Council members:** The platform generates streams of TEL issuance to members of Miner Councils (”Council Members”) who possess governance NFT’s as a result of election or liquid delegation processes and according to harvesting rules determined by system-wide Miner Councils.
    - **Telcoin Association Operations UAB (TAO):** An initial issuance will be transferred to the TAO to finance legal, organizational costs associated with setting up TAO, and to finance operational costs related to its ongoing activities in year one.

## Contextual Factors

- **Attributes of the System: Telcoin Platform**
    
    The Telcoin Platform consists of three overlapping blockchain networks that each produce a complementary set of integrated blockchain products and flows of TEL issuance.
    
    - **Telcoin Application Network:** a network of Telcoin mobile applications produced by Developers and Stakers enabling users to access Telcoin and its suite of products.
    - **TELx:** A decentralized financial marketplace.
    - **Telcoin Network:** An Ethereum-compatible, public blockchain network using proof-of-stake consensus.
- **Attributes of the Community**
    - **Demographic Features:** Heterogenous and global; miners range from tier one mobile network operators to anyone with an internet connection and web3 wallet.
    - **Learn more:**
        
        [Miners: Overview](Miners%20Overview%2062b250c4c05a4a4c88e88db76a86f575.md)
        
- **Rules-in-use**
    - **Operational-choice rules**
        
        [Harvesting Rules](Harvesting%20Rules%2011a7f841c5464b5494e54b0a55b77586.md)
        
    - **Collective-choice rules**
        
        [Miner Council Decision-making Rules](Miner%20Council%20Decision-making%20Rules%20e147d119066f46e7ac0b8f9b66931f69.md)
        

## Interactions and Outcomes

### Table 1: Actors, Issuance Allocation, Activities, Basis for income

| Actor | Annual Allocation | % | Issuance Flow | Activities | Basis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Validators** | 400,000,000 | 20.00% | 1,095,890.41 TEL per day | Stake TEL to participate in Proof of Stake consensus and operate a full node. | Pro-rata share of blocks secured to the Telcoin Network blockchain each day. |
| **Liquidity Miners** | 400,000,000 | 20.00% | 33,333,333.33 per month | Provision liquidity to TELx and provide Proof of Liquidity. | Pro-rata share of liquidity staked on TELx over time. |
| **Developers** | 333,333,333.33 | 16.66% | 6,410,256.41 TEL per week | Stake TEL to provide Proof of Alignment, enable users to access the Platform. | Pro-rata share of their mobile application’s (Referral fees + TELx exchange fees + Telcoin Network gas fees paid by users) vs other developers each week. |
| **Merchant Stakers** | 333,333,333.33 | 16.66% | 6,410,256.41 TEL per week | Stake TEL to provide Proof of Alignment, market Telcoin to customers. | Pro-rata share of their (fees paid + their referred users’ fees paid) vs other merchant stakers each week. |
| **Retail Stakers** | 333,333,333.33 | 16.66% | Stake TEL to provide Proof of Alignment, market Telcoin to friends and family. | Stake TEL to provide Proof of Alignment, market Telcoin to friends and family. | Pro-rata share of their (fees paid + their referred users’ fees paid) vs other retail stakers each week. |
| **TAO Issuance** | 100,000,000 | 5.00% | 100,000,000 TEL per year | Developing the Telcoin ecosystem. | Streamed to the TAO on a per block basis. |
| **Council Members** | 60,000,000 | 3.00% | Ongoing stream of issuance. | Participate in decisions regulating the Platform. | Streamed TEL issuance each block in which they own a Governance NFT. |
| **TAO Legal & Org** | 40,000,000 | 2.00% | Initial, one time. | Setting up the TAO and Association. | One-time issuance for legal and operational costs. |
| **Total** | 2,000,000,000 |  |  |  |  |

### Stakers: Issuance Harvesting Overview

**Table 2:** Stakers, issuance type, activities, allocation, basis for income

| Actor | Annual Allocation | % | Issuance Flow | Activities | Basis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Merchant Stakers** | 333,333,333.33 | 16.66% | 6,410,256.41 TEL per week | Stake TEL to provide Proof of Alignment, market Telcoin to customers. | Pro-rata share of exchange volume by all merchant stakers and their referred users. |
| **Retail Stakers** | 333,333,333.33 | 16.66% | Stake TEL to provide Proof of Alignment, market Telcoin to friends and family. | Stake TEL to provide Proof of Alignment, market Telcoin to friends and family. | Pro-rata share of exchange volume by all retail stakers and their referred users. |
- **Participants, Eligibility and Authorization**
    
    According to rules determined by the TAN Council and enforced by Developers, individuals or corporations who download a Telcoin application, register using KYC, integrate another user’s referral link, and stake TEL may participate as a staker.
    
    **Further information**
    
    [Stakers: Positions, Eligibility and Authorization Rules](Stakers%20Positions,%20Eligibility%20and%20Authorization%20R%20962d4b7ad8ff44738a7a28d5fc60b6be.md)
    
- **Activities & Benefits**
    
    Staking TEL, referring new users, transacting, harvesting TEL issuance.
    
    - **Activities:** Stake TEL and refer new users
        - **Service:** Driving adoption
            - **Overview:** Stakers market Telcoin to new users using their unique referral link/QR code.
        - **Issuance Mechanism:** Proof of Alignment
            - **Overview:** Stake TEL to provide cryptographic Proof of Alignment with the Platform, determining their referral fee rate and the maximum quantity of issuance they may harvest each week.
                - **Maximum Issuance:** Stakers can mine their accrued weekly issuance if: Total staked TEL throughout the entire week > lifetime issuance income + issuance income during the week
    - **Benefits**: Income from adoption issuance and inclusion issuance
        - **Adoption Issuance**
            - **Annual Issuance**
                - **Merchant** **Stakers:** 333,333,333.33 TEL
                - **Retail Stakers:** 333,333,333.33 TEL
        - **Issuance Flow**
            - **Merchant Stakers:** • 6,410,256.41 TEL per week
            - **Retail Stakers:** • 6,410,256.41 TEL per week
        - **Basis:** Pro-rata share of total exchange volume conducted by the staker and their referred network of users versus all other stakers of the same position (corporate or retail) during each weekly period.
            - **Maximum weekly issuance:** Stakers can mine their accrued weekly issuance if their: Total staked TEL throughout the entire week > lifetime issuance income + issuance income during the week
            - **Excess TEL:** Any excess TEL which has not been mined from adoption issuance due to lack of staked TEL will carry over to the following week.
- **Technology used**
    - **TEL:** Stakers “stake” TEL to provide cryptographic Proof of Alignment with the Platform, determining their maximum total lifetime issuance available to be harvested and their referral fee rate.
    - **Referral Link:** Stakers market the platform and add users to their referred network by sharing their unique referral link/QR Code.
    - **Telcoin Application:** In order to access Application layer benefits, stakers must utilize a Telcoin Mobile Application.
    - **Mobile Phone:** Telcoin Applications are available iOS or android mobile devices.
- **Infrastructure involved**
    - **Application Components:** Mobile app, product interface, banking infrastructure, multi-signature wallet, trade router, referral fee router, KYC/AML system.
    - **Staking Contracts:** On-chain staking contracts which Application layer miners use to participate in Proof of Alignment. Staking contracts calculate an individual Staker’s TEL balance and make available issuance to be claimed by miners based on their economic activity.
    - **Off-chain Database and Script:** Off-chain script which leverages Developers’ databases in order to calculate issuance based on user activity.
    - **TAN Council Safe:** The primary inventory of TAN issuance which receives, stores, and generates a flow of issuance from the TEL treasury as a stream to be distributed and harvested by Applications, Stakers, and Users according to harvesting rules determined by the TAN Council.
    - **TAN Incentives Safe:** Multi-signature wallet which receives, stores, and airdrops issuance to staking contracts each week according to harvesting rules determined by the TAN Council.
    - **TELx:** Underlying marketplace powering Telcoin Application products.
    - **Telcoin Network:** Underlying blockchain architecture securing private property rights over digital asset and enabling on-chain protocols and applications such as TELx.
- **For more information**
    
    [Stakers: Attributes](Stakers%20Attributes%20a4b6a38b4c15457b9120ffb204962b85.md)
    
    [TEL Treasury Distribution Rules](TEL%20Treasury%20Distribution%20Rules%20a6443082e9c746518aad465743b5211e.md)
    
    [TAN: Production and Consumption Activities and Benefits](TAN%20Production%20and%20Consumption%20Activities%20and%20Bene%20f15b1001229140c68570226ecc535f95.md)
    

### Developers: Issuance Harvesting Overview

**Table 3:** Developers, issuance type, activities, allocation, basis for income

| Actor | Activities | Flow (per week) | Basis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Developers | Stake TEL, produce Telcoin mobile applications, mine TEL issuance. | 6,410,256.41 | Pro-rata share of referral fees, TELx volume, Telcoin Network volume vs all Developers. |
- **Participants, Eligibility and Authorization**
    
    According to rules determined by the TAN Council, GSMA members who (1) submit an authorizations proposal (2) are affirmed by the Compliance Council (3) stake TEL can participate as developers.
    
    **Further information**
    
    [Developers: Eligibility and Authorization Rules](Developers%20Eligibility%20and%20Authorization%20Rules%20c7e2300867e74236a684317cd9a0a500.md)
    
- **Activities & Benefits**
    
    Stake TEL, produce a Telcoin Application, harvest TEL issuance.
    
    - **Activities:** Producing a Telcoin application and staking TEL.
        - **Service:** Enabling mobile financial access
            - **Overview:** Developers produce Telcoin mobile applications, enabling users to (1) access and (2) produce and benefit from the adoption of the Telcoin Platform and the products and services it generates.
        - **Issuance Mechanism:** Proof of Alignment
            - **Overview:** Developers stake TEL to provide cryptographic Proof of Alignment with the Platform, determining their maximum total lifetime issuance available to be harvested.
                - **Maximum Issuance:** Developers can mine their accrued weekly issuance if: Total staked TEL throughout the entire week > lifetime issuance income + issuance income during the week
    - **Benefits**: Income from adoption issuance
        - **Adoption Issuance**
            - **Annual Issuance:** 333,333,333.33 TEL
            - **Issuance Flow:** 6,410,256.41 TEL per week
            - **Basis for Income:** Pro-rata share of total weekly referral fees earned by stakers across all Applications.
                - **Maximum weekly issuance:** Applications mine their accrued weekly issuance if their: Total staked TEL throughout the entire week > lifetime issuance income + issuance income during the week
                - **Excess TEL:** Any excess TEL which has not been mined from adoption issuance due to lack of staked TEL will carry over to the following week.
- **Technology used**
    - **TEL:** Applications stake TEL to provide cryptographic Proof of Alignment with the Platform, determining their maximum total lifetime issuance available to be harvested.
    - **Authorized Wallet:** Governance authorized, openly identifiable unique multi-signature address.
    - **Telcoin Application:** Mobile application built on the Telcoin Platform stack which meets and maintains required components, policies, and procedures as determined by Telcoin Governance including a mobile app, product interface, banking infrastructure, multi-signature wallet, trade router, referral fee router, KYC/AML system.
- **Infrastructure involved**
    - **Staking Contracts:** On-chain staking contracts which Application layer miners use to participate in Proof of Alignment. Staking contracts calculate an individual stakers TEL balance and make available issuance to be claimed by miners based on their economic activity.
    - **Off-chain Database and Script:** Off-chain script which leverages Applications’ databases in order to calculate issuance based on user activity.
    - **TAN Council Safe:** The primary stock of TAN issuance which receives, stores, and generates a flow of issuance from the Treasury stock as a stream to be distributed and harvested by Applications, Stakers, and Users according to governance determined policies.
    - **TAN Incentives Safe:** Multi-signature wallet which receives, stores, and airdrops issuance to staking contracts each week according to governance determined policies.
    - **TELx:** Underlying marketplace powering Telcoin Application products.
    - **Telcoin Network:** Underlying blockchain architecture securing private property rights over digital assets and enabling on-chain protocols and applications such as TELx.
- **For more information**
    
    [Application Developers: Overview](Application%20Developers%20Overview%20d6710bd3b09442f79763c739f194927a.md)
    

### Liquidity Miners: Issuance Harvesting Overview

**Table 3:** Liquidity Miners, issuance type, activities, allocation, basis for income

| Actor | Issuance Type | Activities | Annual Allocation | Flow (per quarter) | Basis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Liquidity Miners | Individual Markets Issuance | Provision liquidity to individual markets, stake LPT, mine TEL issuance. | 400,000,000 | 100,000,000 | Pro-rata share of liquidity staked in an individual market over time. |
- **Participants, Eligibility and Authorization**
    
    According to rules determined by the TELx Council, anyone who provides liquidity to TELx and stakes their liquidity provider token(s)(”LPTs”) in TELx incentives contracts may participate as a liquidity miner.
    
    **Further information**
    
    [Liquidity Miners: Eligibility and Authorization Rules](Liquidity%20Miners%20Eligibility%20and%20Authorization%20Rul%20f649f24d7c5f432f8e2daea5e1dd496a.md)
    
- **Activities & Benefits**
    
    Liquidity miners provide liquidity to TELx to produce liquid trading markets for users and stake their Liquidity provider tokens, and harvest TELx issuance based on their pro-rata share of staked liquidity across TELx markets over time.
    
    - **Activities:** Provide liquidity and stake LPTs
        - **Service:** Producing liquid markets
            - **Overview:** Liquidity miners provision pool assets to designated TELx markets and accrue swap fees from trades.
        - **Issuance Mechanism:** Proof of Liquidity
            - **Overview:** LM’s provide cryptographic proof of ownership of TELx LP tokens (”LPT”), such as by staking them in incentives contracts or holding LPTs in their wallet, and claim or accrue TEL issuance.
    - **Benefits:** Income from mining TELx issuance
        - **TELx Issuance:** Income from mining TELx issuance
            - **Annual Issuance:** 400,000,000 TEL
            - **Issuance Flow:** 100,000,000 TEL/quarter
            - **Basis for Income:** Pro-rata share of liquidity across markets over time. Varies based on product, market, and asset as determined by the TELx Council liquidity mining policies which include:
                - **Individual Market Incentives:** Liquidity miners harvest TEL based on their pro-rata share of staked liquidity in an individual market over time.
- **Technology Used**
    - **TEL:** Unless impractical within the context of a particular product or protocol as determined by TELx governance, TEL is the primary liquidity pair and is contained in every harvestable market and is required (alongside other assets) in order to provision liquidity to TELx markets.
    - **TELx assets:** Miners provision other cryptoassets alongside and in addition to TEL according to the parameters set by TELx governance.
    - **Gas Tokens:** Users need TEL or other governance approved gas tokens in order to pay gas fees and have their transactions included in a block and secured to the blockchain by validators.
    - **Liquidity Provider Tokens:** The asset TELx DeFi liquidity providers receive after provisioning liquidity and use to custody their pro-rata share of liquidity in a pool. LM’s must demonstrate cryptographic Proof of Liquidity by either staking their TELx LPTs in designated incentives contracts or by simply holding tokens in their wallet.
    - **Web3 Wallet:** Miners can provision from any EVM compatible wallet.
- **Infrastructure Involved**
    - **Marketplace:** A diverse network of decentralized exchange liquidity pools across three DeFi protocols- Balancer, Quickswap, and DFX.
    - **Front-Ends:** [TELx.network](http://telx.network/)
    - **Staking Contracts:** Single and dual incentives contracts that store, calculate and make available TEL units to be mined. Liquidity miners deposit their LPTs in TELx staking contracts and mine TEL issuance based on their pro-rata share of LPTs staked in the individual contract.
    - **TELx Council Safe:** A gnosis multi-sig using the Zodiac module, governed by the TELx Council through snapshot voting, can only distribute tokens upon unanimous approval by the TELx Council. TELx issuance flows from the Treasury stock to this issuance stock where TEL units are stored and flow to staking contracts or the incentives stock to be harvested by miners.
    - **TELx Incentives Safe:** A gnosis multi-sig which receives TEL units from the issuance stock and distributes incentives to staking contracts to be harvested by miners.
    - **Telcoin Network:** Underlying blockchain architecture securing private property rights over digital assets and enabling on-chain protocols and applications such as TELx.
- **For more information**
    
    [Liquidity Miners: Overview](Liquidity%20Miners%20Overview%20c4b230b301734e46af329afebb446103.md)
    
    [TELx Harvesting Rules](TELx%20Harvesting%20Rules%200d98f735b4ae4008a8b5443ecaed4cff.md)
    
    [TELx: Production and Consumption Activities and Benefits](TELx%20Production%20and%20Consumption%20Activities%20and%20Ben%20c7eb17b35f314a0dab346cf57c9a60d6.md)
    

### Validators: Issuance Harvesting Overview

**Table 3:** Validators, issuance type, activities, allocation, basis for income

| Actor | Issuance Type | Activities | Annual Allocation | Flow (per block) | Basis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Validators | Telcoin Network Issuance | Stake TEL, operate a full node, produce valid blocks to the blockchain, mine TEL issuance. | 400,000,000 | ~15.84 | Validators mine issuance contained in each block they secure to the blockchain. |
- **Participants, Eligibility and Authorization**
    
    According to rules determined by system-wide councils, (1) all GSMA Operator Member Mobile Network Operators (MNOs), (2) located in non-sanctioned jurisdictions, (3) who submit a validator authorizations proposal, (4) are affirmed by the Compliance Council, and (5) stake TEL for validation may participate as a Validator.
    
    **Further information:**
    
    [Validators: Eligibility and Authorization Rules](Validators%20Eligibility%20and%20Authorization%20Rules%20d1d74da5ded14cccb5958e43f2238acd.md)
    
- **Activities & Benefits**
    
    Validators stake TEL to participate in Proof of Stake consensus, operate a full node, produce blocks, harvest issuance and earn fees contained in each block they secure to the Telcoin Network blockchain.
    
    - **Activities:** Stake TEL, operate a full node, produce blocks to the Telcoin blockchain.
        - **Service:** Blockchain security
            - **Overview:** Validators operate a full node, produce valid blocks, and secure blocks of transactions to the blockchain, earning issuance and the sum of gas fees contained in each block they validate to they blockchain.
        - **Issuance Mechanism:** Proof of Stake
            - **Overview:** Validators stake TEL, providing cryptographic Proof of Stake, which is required to ensure honest computation at risk of graduated sanctions (”stake slashing”). The quantity of TEL a validator has staked increases their probability of securing a block to the chain.
    - **Benefits:** Income from mining Telcoin Network issuance
        - **Telcoin Network Issuance:** Income from mining Telcoin Network issuance.
            - **Annual Issuance:** 400,000,000 TEL
            - **Issuance Flow:** 15.84 TEL per block
            - **Basis for Income:** 15.84 TEL per block secured to the Telcoin Network blockchain.
- **Technology Used**
    - **TEL:** Staked TEL is required to ensure honest computation and an individual validator’s stake weight relative to other validators determines the probability they will secure a block to the blockchain, increasing income opportunities.
    - **Vault:** Governance authorized unique identified wallet address and vault system for securing validator master key.
    - **Node Infrastructure:** Virtual cloud instance with the following capabilities:
        - **Storage requirements:** 2 TB
        - **Memory requirements:** >64 Gig
        - **CPU requirements:** >4 cores
        - **Networking:** High availability
- **Infrastructure Involved**
    - **Telcoin Network Safe:** A gnosis multi-sig using the Zodiac module, governed by system-wide councils through snapshot voting. Telcoin Network issuance flows from the Treasury stock to this issuance stock where TEL units are stored and flow to staking contracts or the incentives stock to be harvested by miners.
    - **Telcoin Network Distribution Safe:** A gnosis multi-sig which receives TEL units from the issuance stock and distributes incentives to staking contracts to be harvested by validators.
    - **Telcoin Network:** Underlying blockchain architecture securing private property rights over digital assets and enabling on-chain protocols and applications such as TELx.
- **For more information**
    
    [Validators: Overview](Validators%20Overview%20d6636debcbeb403ab9d14ccb9254e4c1.md)
    
    [Telcoin Network Harvesting Rules](Telcoin%20Network%20Harvesting%20Rules%20765a891052094eb0bc41e357a2eafbc3.md)
    
    [Telcoin Network: Production and Consumption Activities and Benefits](Telcoin%20Network%20Production%20and%20Consumption%20Activit%2014953125f1de432787459439b073ef2c.md)
    

### Council Members: Issuance Harvesting Overview

**Table 3:** Council Members, issuance type, activities, allocation, basis for income

| Actor | Issuance Type | Activities | Annual Allocation | Flow (per block) | Basis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Council Members | Governance Issuance | Participate in decisions regulating the Platform including the flow of TEL issuance or making improvements in infrastructure. | 60,000,000 | 2.375 | Streamed TEL issuance each block in which they own a Governance NFT. |
- **Participants, Eligibility and Authorization**
    
    According to rules determined by the Miner Assembly, (1) all miners (2) located in non-sanctioned jurisdictions, (3) who nominate themselves, (4) are selected by other miners in election or liquid delegation processes through their ownership of a governance NFT, (5) authorized by the Compliance Council, may participate as Council Members and harvest issuance.
    
    **Further information:**
    
    [Council Member Authorizations](Council%20Member%20Authorizations%20f00711b81b3f45e9b5130e09a43dca97.md)
    
    [Elections: Nominations Rules](https://www.notion.so/Elections-Nominations-Rules-6f0536390f0e40188c5e451876b95139?pvs=21)
    
    [Elections](Elections%20ec147541fa7d4dfab738bbb21379d09a.md)
    
    [Liquid Delegations](Liquid%20Delegations%207375461c576f479da6ad57081e31ab8c.md)
    
- **Activities & Benefits**
    
    Council Members participate in collective-choice decisions that provide for improvements to the platform, regulate the flow of TEL issuance, determine and enforce rules structuring interactions in their domain, and harvest TEL issuance.
    
    - **Activities:** Participate in collective-choice decision making processes.
        - **Service:** Governance
            - **Overview:** Council Members participate in collective-choice decisions that provide for improvements to the platform, regulate the flow of TEL issuance, determine and enforce rules structuring interactions in their domain.
        - **Issuance Mechanism:** Proof of Council Member
            - **Overview:** After being selected by miners into a Council Member position, Council Members are transferred a governance NFT conferring them authority over their domain and automatically distribute issuance to their wallet.
    - **Benefits:** Income from mining council member issuance.
        - **Council Member Issuance:** Income from mining council member issuance.
            - **Annual Issuance:** 60,000,000 TEL
            - **Issuance Flow:** 2.375 TEL per block
            - **Basis for Income:** All owners of Telcoin governance NFTs earn an equal quantity of council member issuance calculated using the following basis formula.
                - **Basis Formula:** (2.375 TEL per block/33 Council Members) = 0.07196 TEL per block
- **Technology used**
    - **Authorized Wallet:** Governance authorized unique multi-signature address.
    - **TEL:** Council members must establish proof of miner (proof of alignment, proof of liquidity or proof of stake) with the Compliance Council in order to maintain their role and issuance rights.
- **Infrastructure involved**
    - **Governance NFTs:** Non-transferable, governance NFTs are delegated to Council Members wallet and are required in order to mine governance issuance, to make formal governance proposals, and to vote on formal governance proposals.
    - **Governance System Infrastructure:** Gnosis safes, snapshot, zodiac gnosis safe modules, ENS, Telcoin Forum, Telcoin Documentation
    - **Superfluid:** Streaming mechanism flowing TEL governance issuance to delegates holding governance NFTs.
    - **TEL Treasury:** Council member issuance originates from the TEL Treasury.
    - **Telcoin Network:** Underlying blockchain architecture securing private property rights over digital assets and enabling on-chain protocols and applications such as TELx.
- **For more information**
    
    [Council Members: Harvesting Rules](Council%20Members%20Harvesting%20Rules%20470727745d5245f3a9c340b57b81dc38.md)
    
    [Governance Infrastructure](Governance%20Infrastructure%2007e6c04184894bf6b8aa185139acda77.md)
    
    [Miner Council Decision Rules: Overview](Miner%20Council%20Decision%20Rules%20Overview%20d728920f4c2a403cae160fca03052f6a.md)
    

### TAO: Issuance Harvesting Overview

**Table 3:** TAO, issuance types, activities, allocation, basis for income

| Actor | Issuance Type | Activities | Allocation | Flow & Basis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TAO | TAO Issuance | Facilitates governance processes; maintains and constructs and coordinated the construction of platform components; develops the Telcoin ecosystem internally and externally. | 100,000,000 | An initial issuance will be distributed to the TAO after the the community affirms governance proposal 1. System-wide governance must approve TAO issuance on a yearly basis. |
| TAO | Legal and Org | Sets up the TAO and Association. | 40,000,000 | One-time issuance used to finance legal & organizational costs. |
- **Participants, Eligibility and Authorization**
    
    According to rules determined by the Miner Assembly, (1) all miners (2) located in non-sanctioned jurisdictions, (3) who nominate themselves, (4) are selected by other miners in election or liquid delegation processes through their ownership of a governance NFT, (5) authorized by the Compliance Council, may participate as TAO and harvest issuance.
    
    - **Note:** In the first 16 months, Telcoin Holdings will elect TAO members. After 16 months, the Miner Assembly will elect all TAO members.
        
        **Further information**
        
        [Council Members: Eligibility and Authorization Rules](Council%20Members%20Eligibility%20and%20Authorization%20Rule%20db15d3cdab8a41e48dea43fef54d45e9.md)
        
- **Activities & Benefits**
    
    Authorized by the Miner Assembly and at the direction of Miner Councils, TAN members facilitate governance activities on behalf of the Telcoin association, maintain existing network components, construct Telcoin Network, coordinate
    
    - **Activities:** Facilitation, maintenance and construction, ecosystem development, general administration.
        - **Service:** Administration, Production, Ecosystem Development
            - **Overview:** The TAN serves as a special-purpose production unit that facilitates governance activities on behalf of the association, maintains and constructs platform components, develops the Telcoin ecosystem of miners, and serves as a general administrator of public goods and services at the direction of the Miner Councils.
        - **Issuance Mechanism:** Proof of Council Member
            - **Overview:** After being selected by miners into a Council Member position, Council Members are transferred a governance NFT conferring them authority over their domain and automatically distribute issuance to their wallet.
    - **Benefits:** Income from mining council member issuance.
        - **Council Member Issuance:** Income from mining council member issuance.
            - **Annual Issuance:** 60,000,000 TEL
            - **Issuance Flow:** 2.375 TEL per block
            - **Basis for Income:** All owners of Telcoin governance NFTs earn an equal quantity of council member issuance calculated using the following basis formula.
                - **Basis Formula:** (2.375 TEL per block/33 Council Members) = 0.07196 TEL per block
        - **TAO Issuance:** Financing for operational activities
            - **Initial** **Issuance:** 100,000,000 TEL
            - **Issuance Flow:** One time, after the community approves governance proposal 1. Future allocations must be affirmed by Miner Councils as a result of collective-choice processes.
            - **Basis for Income:** Financing operational activities
        - **Legal and Organizational Issuance:** Financing for the set-up and on-going costs associated with the Telcoin Association and TAO.
            - **Issuance:** 40,000,000 TEL
            - **Issuance Flow:** One time, after the community approves governance proposal 1.
            - **Basis for Income:** To finance the Telcoin Association and TAO set-up and on-going legal and organizational costs.
- **Technology used**
    - **Authorized Wallet:** Governance authorized unique multi-signature address.
    - **TEL:** Council members must establish proof of miner (proof of alignment, proof of liquidity or proof of stake) with the Compliance Council in order to maintain their role and issuance rights.
- **Infrastructure involved**
    - **Governance NFTs:** Non-transferable, governance NFTs are delegated to Council Members wallet and are required in order to mine governance issuance, to make formal governance proposals, and to vote on formal governance proposals.
    - **Governance System Infrastructure:** Gnosis safes, snapshot, zodiac gnosis safe modules, ENS, Telcoin Forum, Telcoin Documentation
    - **Superfluid:** Streaming mechanism flowing TEL governance issuance to delegates holding governance NFTs.
    - **TEL Treasury:** Council member issuance originates from the TEL Treasury.
    - **Telcoin Network:** Underlying blockchain architecture securing private property rights over digital assets and enabling on-chain protocols and applications such as TELx.
- **For more information**
    
    [Miner Councils](Miner%20Councils%201d0242285f44491eaf5baa0a58de0df3.md)
    

## Evaluative Criteria

- **General Performance Indicators**
    - **Staked TEL:** Total TEL staked by miners for use in production, harvesting and governance processes
    - **Number of Actors:** Number of users, Miners over time
    - **Fees:** Fees earned by Miners over time
- **Sustainability**
    
    Can the quantity of TEL issuance units distributed from the TEL Treasury according to issuance distribution rules sustain at current levels over time?
    
    - **Definition and Importance**
        - **Definition:** Can the quantity of benefits produced by the system and extracted by appropriators sustain over time?
        - **Importance:** If the stock of benefits available to be extracted from a system are exhausted, the incentives to participate are proportionally reduced for future generations.
    - **Indicators**
        - **Renewability Formula**
            - (Total TEL burned on Platform - Total TEL issued from Platform)/time
            - **Note:** The total TEL burned on Telcoin Network replenishes in proportionate quantity to the TEL Treasury to be harvested by future generations of miners.
- **Participation**
    
    How many miners are participating in each position?
    
    - **Definition and Importance**
        - **Definition:** Measured by the number of actors and their level of involvement in associated processes.
        - **Importance:** Participation tends to increase legitimacy; co-production can be especially effective form of participation.
- **Proportional Equivalence**
    
    Are TEL Treasury distribution levels suitable to Platform conditions? Are the benefits obtained by miners proportional to the amount of inputs required in the form of labor, material, or money?
    
    - **Definition and Importance**
        - **Definition:** The rules-in-use allocate benefits proportional to inputs required.(Understanding Institutional Diversity, 262-3, E. Ostrom).
        - **Importance:** When the rules related to the distribution of benefits are made broadly consistent with the distribution of costs, participants are more willing to pitch in to keep a resource well-maintained and sustainable. Relating user inputs to the benefits they obtain is a crucial element of establishing a fair system. If some users get all the benefits and pay few of the costs, others are not willing to follow rules over time. Thus, fairness is a crucial attribute of the rules of robust systems. (Understanding Institutional Diversity, 263, E. Ostrom)
    - **Indicators:** Harvesting rules restricting time, place, technology and/or quantity of TEL units are related to local conditions. The benefits obtained by miners from the Platform, as determined by harvesting rules, are proportional to the amount of inputs required in the form of labor, material, or money, as determined by provisioning rules.
        - **Issuance Harvesting:** Total issuance harvested < total fees
        - **Fiscal Equivalence:** Total costs to produce improvements < total fees